## CTDA Technical Roadmap Discussion
### February 24, 2017
### 3:00-3:30pm EST
---
#### Notes:  
* Storage: In the near future, our storage solution, Dell EqualLogic, will be coming off of warranty. Dell is discontinuing this storage platform. We have decided to be proactive and search for an alternative now. We began testing [Amplidata](http://amplidata.com/) which is provided by the UConn Health via UConn IT services. We have found that this solution can work for us with some fixes along the way. What does this mean? Currently, tests have shown that Amplidata has mixed results in terms of performance in relation to our current platform. At times, Amplidata is slower or faster. We have brought this to the attention of UITS, central IT, and have a plan forward to solve this issue. This plan will follow the recommends of UITS and bring us inline with other units at UConn who need a faster storage solution. The details of this plan will be shared once we determine the sequence of steps for this as well as improving performance as part of our infrastructure overhaul.  
* Infrastructure: We have been dealing with slow page load times, slow ingests or slow or no indexing, among other issues. We have seen this and also participants and users have noted these issues through multiple surveys. We are currently working with our vendor to assess our current infrastructure and determine next steps to improve performance. At this moment, we don't have those steps. We do have many ideas. Once we have the steps in place, we will share those with you, the impact of those steps, and how they will help improve performance. This year, we will be working on our storage and infrastructure. Our end goal is to improve performance and thus enhancing participants' and users' experience. We understand that indexing is a particular pain point and have a short term plan in place.  
* Index update: This is our short term plan to address the indexing bottleneck that we have been dealing with. This short term plan involves updating the index every 4th Friday of the month. All manage sites will be in maintenance mode starting at 3pm EST. The index will take approximately 16 hours to update. We ask that participants halt ingests during that time. We will endeavor to send out reminders to the community through the CTDA Alert list. We would like to thank our library IT who are spending their weekend doing this work. We appreciate their dedication and committement to ensure that your resources are indexed. We are also looking into a plan of re-building the index at the end of the year during our end of year maintenance. Please know that if you receive a message such as "Document not present in Solr...", that your resource has been ingested. This message means that your resource is not discoverable. We understand that receiving this message and not having discoverable resources is problematic and inconvenient. This problem with the index is known to Fedora version 3.71, which is the version we currently run. The index is also a known bottleneck of Fedora. We are also running a multi-thread index which our vendor has already recommended that we move away from. This work, moving away from multi-threading and considering Fedora version 3.8, is part of our considerations of our long term plan to improve performance overall. Once we have details and our initial steps, we will share that with the community.  
* External Batch Ingest Service: We are currently troublshooting this service. We found a bug in one of the core batch ingest solution packs. We have a fix which we have brought to the attention of the Islandora Dev-ops community. Currently, this service is not ready. We are fixing bugs and testing to ensure that this services works as expected and doesn't effect other core functionality. Once we have tested and reviewed this external batch ingest service, we will share that announcement with the community. Currently, we don't have a timeline for the completion of this work. The first iteration of this service will be a batch service for UConn and CSL for the content models of: basic image, large image, PDF, and document. The goal of the external batch ingest services is to ease the load of ingests taking place on the server and facilitate ingests as this service will validate MODS xml and zip files for participants. 
